README.md, before:


![RB5 logo](./rb5_logo.svg)

# RB5 wheeled experimental robotic platform ROS2 and ROS packages

In this git repo, you can find the source code of the ROS2 and ROS packages for the RB5 experimental robotic platform. 

It constitutes the supplementary material to the paper "A low-cost energy-efficient approach for long-term autonomous exploration": https://adamseewald.cc/short/rb52023

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Vflmh6LTo6A" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Installation

Install all the ROS2 and ROS packages in your local workspace.

In this repository, you will find the **ground robot** ROS2 package, which contains the code that runs on the companion computer onboard RB5, i.e., an <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.seeedstudio.com/reComputer-J2021-p-5438.html?">NVIDIA (C) Jetson (R) NX</a>.

## Usage

Clone the repository in your local workspace and compile the workspace.

To run for instance the remote control via LoRa long-range low-power communication technology from the internet-of-things domain, you will need the `chw_bs_comm` node (communication with a remotely located base station) and the `chw_ctl_comm` node (communication with the microcontroller).

## Hardware

Follows a list of the necessary hardware for the approach. Motors, motor drives, and the battery are not listed.

| HW | Scope | Amount |
|-|-|:-:|
| <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy40.html">Teensy (R) 4.0 Development Board</a> | Low level processing, microcontroller | 1x |
| <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.seeedstudio.com/reComputer-J2021-p-5438.html?">NVIDIA (C) Jetson (R) NX</a> |  High level processing, companion computer onboard | 1x |
| <a rel="lora" href="https://ronoth.com/products/lostik">LoRa bundle with the RN2903 module</a> | Communication on long distances | 2x |
| <a rel="RGB-D" href="https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/sku/189347"> Intel (R) AX200 network card</a> | Communication on short distances | 1x |
| <a rel="RGB-D" href="https://www.intelrealsense.com/depth-camera-d435/">Intel (R) RealSense (TM) D435 RGB-D camera</a> | Visual sensing, depth perception, SLAM | 1x |


## License
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

added sources for ground-nav and base-server, fixes to readme

README.md, after:


![RB5 logo](./rb5_logo.svg)

# RB5 wheeled experimental robotic platform ROS2 and ROS packages

In this git repo, you can find the source code of the ROS2 and ROS packages for the RB5 experimental robotic platform. 

It constitutes the supplementary material to the paper "A low-cost energy-efficient approach for long-term autonomous exploration": https://adamseewald.cc/short/rb52023

[![Watch the video](./rb5_video_gif.gif)](https://youtu.be/Vflmh6LTo6A)


## Installation

Install all the ROS2 and ROS packages in your local workspace.

In this repository, you can find the **ground robot**: `rb5-ground-robot` ROS2 package, which contains the code that runs on the companion computer onboard RB5, i.e., an <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.seeedstudio.com/reComputer-J2021-p-5438.html?">NVIDIA (R) Jetson NX (TM)</a>.

There is additionally the **ground navigation**: `rb5-ground-nav` ROS package, which contains the code that collects point clouds from an RGB-D camera and other data from the SLAM algorithm and ports them into ROS2 [here](./rb5-ground-navigation).

Finally, there is also the **base server** PHP- and JavaScript-based remote control base station that implements the necessary functionality for remote human intervention [here](./rb5-base-server).

## Usage

Clone the repository in your local workspace ROS2 and compile the workspace. Rember to move the directory [`rb5-ground-navigation`](./rb5-ground-navigation/) in a ROS1 workspace and compile accordingly, and to use the directory [`rb5-base-server`](./rb5-base-server) in a PHP compatible web server, e.g., [Apache](https://httpd.apache.org/).

To run for instance the remote control via LoRa long-range low-power communication technology from the internet-of-things domain, you will need the `chw_bs_comm` node (communication with a remotely located base station) and the `chw_ctl_comm` node (communication with the microcontroller).

## Hardware

Follows a list of the necessary hardware for the approach. Motors, motor drives, and the battery are not listed.

| HW | Scope | Amount |
|-|-|:-:|
| <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy40.html">Teensy (R) 4.0 Development Board</a> | Low level processing, microcontroller | 1x |
| <a rel="jetson" href="https://www.seeedstudio.com/reComputer-J2021-p-5438.html?">NVIDIA (R) Jetson NX (TM)</a> |  High level processing, companion computer onboard | 1x |
| <a rel="lora" href="https://ronoth.com/products/lostik">LoRa bundle with the RN2903 module</a> | Communication on long distances | 2x |
| <a rel="RGB-D" href="https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/sku/189347"> Intel (R) AX200 network card</a> | Communication on short distances | 1x |
| <a rel="RGB-D" href="https://www.intelrealsense.com/depth-camera-d435/">Intel (R) RealSense (TM) D435 RGB-D camera</a> | Visual sensing, depth perception, SLAM | 1x |


## License
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.
